Five score years ago, a great American, in whose symbolic shadow we stand today, sign五年前，一个伟大的美国人，我们今天站在他象征性的阴影下
ed the Emancipation Proclamation. This momentous decree came as a great beacon ligh解放宣言。这一重大法令犹如一盏伟大的灯塔。
t of hope to millions of Negro slaves who had been seared in the flames of withering injus对无数被烧毁的烈焰灼伤的黑人奴隶的希望
tice. It came as a joyous daybreak to end the long night of bad captivity.泰斯。它的到来犹如欢乐的黎明，结束了囚禁的漫漫长夜。
But one hundred years later, the Negro still is not free. One hundred years later, the life但是一百年后，黑人仍然不是自由的。一百年后的生活
of the Negro is still sadly crippled by the manacles of segregation and the chains of discr黑人仍然被种族隔离的镣铐和DISCR的镣铐弄得残缺不全。
imination. One hundred years later, the Negro lives on a lonely island of poverty in the mi模仿。一百年后，黑人生活在密西西比州的一个贫穷的孤岛上。
dst of a vast ocean of material prosperity. One hundred years later, the Negro is still lang物质繁荣的汪洋大海。一百年后，黑人仍然是朗
uished in the corners of American society and finds himself an exile in his own land. So w在美国社会的角落里发现自己在自己的土地上流放。那么W
e’ve come here today to dramatize a shameful condition.今天我们来到这里是为了戏剧性地描述一个可耻的情况。
I am not unmindful that some of you have come here out of great trials and tribulations.我并不是没有意识到你们中的一些人是从巨大的考验和磨难中来到这里的。
Some of you have come fresh from narrow jail cells. Some of you have come from areas你们中的一些人刚从狭小的牢房里出来。你们中的一些人来自地区。
where your quest for freedom left you battered by the storms of persecution and stagger你对自由的追求让你遭受迫害和错乱的打击
ed by the winds of police brutality. You have been the veterans of creative suffering. Conti被警察的暴风所驱使。你一直是创造苦难的退伍军人。康蒂
nue to work with the faith that unearned suffering is redemptive.要学会相信不劳而获的苦难是救赎的。
Go back to Mississippi, go back to Alabama, go back to South Carolina, go back to Geor回到密西西比州，回到亚拉巴马州，回到南卡罗来纳州，回到Geor。
gia, go back to Louisiana, go back to the slums and ghettos of our northern cities, knowinGIA，回到路易斯安那，回到我们北方城市的贫民窟和贫民窟
g that somehow this situation can and will be changed. Let us not wallow in the valley ofG，这种情况可以而且将会改变。让我们不要沉湎于山谷之中
despair.绝望。
I say to you today, my friends, so even though we face the difficulties of today and tomorr朋友们，今天我对你们说，尽管我们面对今天和明天的困难。
ow, I still have a dream. It is a dream deeply rooted in the American dream.唉，我还有一个梦想。这是一个深深扎根于美国梦中的梦。
I have a dream that one day this nation will rise up, live up to the true meaning of its cr我梦想有一天，这个国家将奋起，实现它的真正意义。
eed: “We hold these truths to be self-evident; that all men are created equal.”我们认为这些真理是不言而喻的，人人生而平等。
I have a dream that one day on the red hills of Georgia the sons of former slaves and t我梦想有一天，在格鲁吉亚的红色山丘上，昔日奴隶的儿子
he sons of former slave-owners will be able to sit down together at the table of brotherho从前奴隶主的儿子们可以一起坐在兄弟会的桌子旁。
od.OD。
I have a dream that one day even the state of Mississippi, a state sweltering with the h我梦想有一天，即使是密西西比州，一个充满激情的国家。
eat of injustice, sweltering with the heat of oppression, will be transformed into an oasis o吃不公正，闷热的压迫，就会变成绿洲。
f freedom and justice.自由与正义。
I have a dream that my four children will one day live in a nation where they will not be我梦想有一天，我的四个孩子将生活在一个他们不在的国家。
judged by the color if their skin but by the content of their character.判断颜色，如果他们的皮肤，但其内容的性质。
I have a dream today.我今天有一个梦想。
I have a dream that one day down in Alabama with its governor having his lips dripping我有一个梦想，有一天，亚拉巴马州州长和他的嘴唇在滴水。
with the words of interposition and nullification, one day right down in Alabama little black用插话和废话的话，有一天在亚拉巴马州的小黑人
boys and black girls will be able to join hands with little white boys and white girls as sist男孩和黑人女孩将能够与小男孩和白人女孩携手共进。
ers and brothers.兄弟姐妹。
I have a dream today.我今天有一个梦想。
I have a dream that one day every valley shall be exalted, every hill and mountain shall我梦想有一天，每一个山谷都将被高举，每一座山和每一座山都将
be made low, the rough places will be made plain, and the crooked places will be made低矮的地方必变平，弯曲的地方必被造。
straight, and the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together.耶和华的荣耀必显明，凡有血气的，都必一同看见。
This is our hope. This is the faith that I go back to the South with. With this faith we will b这是我们的希望。这是我带回South的信念。有了这个信念，我们将
e able to hew out of the mountain of despair a stone of hope. W ith this faith we will be abl我们能从绝望的山坡上砍出一块希望之石。相信我们的信念
e to transform the jangling discords of our nation into a beautiful symphony of brotherhoo把我们国家刺耳的争吵变为一首美丽的兄弟交响曲。
d. W ith this faith we will be able to work together, to pray together, to struggle together, to只要有了这个信念，我们就能一起工作，一起祈祷，一起奋斗。
go to jail together, to stand up for freedom together, knowing that we will be free one day.一起入狱，一起为自由挺身而出，知道我们终有一天会自由。
This will be the day when all of God’s children will be able to sing with new meaning.这将是上帝的所有孩子都能以新的意义歌唱的日子。
My country, ’ tis of thee,我的国家，因为你，
Sweet land of liberty,甜蜜的自由之地，
Of thee I sing:我唱你的歌：
Land where my fathers died,我父亲死后的土地
Land of the pilgrims’ pride,清教徒的骄傲之地，
From every mountainside从每一个山坡
Let freedom ring.让自由之声响起。
And if America is to be a great nation this must become true. So let freedom ring from the如果美国要成为一个伟大的国家，这就必须实现。让自由之声响彻
prodigious hilltops of New Hampshire.巨大的新罕布什尔州山顶。
Let freedom ring from the mighty mountains of New York!让自由之声响彻纽约的巍巍群山！
Let freedom ring from the heightening Alleghenies of Pennsylvania!让自由之声响彻宾夕法尼亚的阿勒格尼！
Let freedom ring from the snowcapped Rockies of Colorado!让自由之声响彻科罗拉多冰雪覆盖的落基山脉！
Let freedom ring from the curvaceous slops of California!让自由从加利福尼亚婀娜多姿的山坡上响起吧！
But not only that; let freedom ring from Stone Mountain of Georgia!但不仅如此，让自由之声响彻佐治亚州的石山！
Let freedom ring from Lookout Mountain of Tennessee!让自由之声响彻田纳西的了望山！
Let freedom ring from every hill and molehill of Mississippi!让自由之声响彻密西西比州的每一座山和每一座小山！
From every mountainside, let freedom ring!让自由之声响彻每一个山坡！
When we let freedom ring, when we let it ring from every village and every hamlet, from e当我们让自由之声响起，当我们让它响彻每一个村庄和每一个村庄时，从E
very state and every city, we will be able to speed up that day when all of God’s children,非常的国家和每一个城市，我们将能够加速那一天，当所有上帝的孩子，
black men and white men, Jews and Gentiles, Protestants and Catholics, will be able to j黑人和白人，犹太人和外邦人，新教徒和天主教徒，将能够J。
oin hands and sing in the words of the old Negro spiritual, “Free at last! free at last! thank用古老的黑人精神的话语来歌唱，“终于自由了！”终于自由了！感谢
God almighty, we are free at last!”全能的上帝，我们终于自由了！“
