Five score years ago, a great American, in whose symbolic shadow we stand today, sign五年前，一位伟大的美国人，在我们今天的象征性阴影中签名ed the Emancipation Proclamation. This momentous decree came as a great beacon ligh解放宣言。这项重大法令是一道伟大的灯塔t of hope to millions of Negro slaves who had been seared in the flames of withering injus数以百万计的黑人奴隶在濒临灭绝的火焰中炙烤的希望tice. It came as a joyous daybreak to end the long night of bad captivity.蒂斯。这是一个欢乐的黎明，结束了被囚禁的漫漫长夜。But one hundred years later, the Negro still is not free. One hundred years later, the life但一百年后，黑人仍然没有自由。一百年后的生活of the Negro is still sadly crippled by the manacles of segregation and the chains of discr对于种族隔离和歧视的束缚，黑人仍然遗憾地瘫痪了imination. One hundred years later, the Negro lives on a lonely island of poverty in the mi亚胺。一百年后，黑人生活在一个孤独的贫困岛上dst of a vast ocean of material prosperity. One hundred years later, the Negro is still lang物质繁荣的广阔海洋。一百年后，黑人仍然是郎uished in the corners of American society and finds himself an exile in his own land. So w在美国社会的角落里徘徊，发现自己在自己的土地上流亡。所以we’ve come here today to dramatize a shameful condition.今天来到这里是为了戏剧化一个可耻的状况。I am not unmindful that some of you have come here out of great trials and tribulations.我有些人是出于极大的考验和磨难而来到这里的，我并不是没有意识。Some of you have come fresh from narrow jail cells. Some of you have come from areas你们中的一些人来自狭窄的牢房。你们有些人来自地区where your quest for freedom left you battered by the storms of persecution and stagger你对自由的追求让你受到迫害和蹒跚的风暴袭击ed by the winds of police brutality. You have been the veterans of creative suffering. Conti受到警察暴行的影响。你一直是创造性痛苦的老手。孔蒂nue to work with the faith that unearned suffering is redemptive.努力工作的信念是，不劳而获的痛苦是救赎。Go back to Mississippi, go back to Alabama, go back to South Carolina, go back to Geor回到密西西比州，回到阿拉巴马州，回到南卡罗来纳州，回到Georgia, go back to Louisiana, go back to the slums and ghettos of our northern cities, knowingia，回到路易斯安那州，回到我们北方城市的贫民窟和贫民窟，知道g that somehow this situation can and will be changed. Let us not wallow in the valley ofg，不知何故，这种情况可以并且将会改变。让我们不要沉溺于山谷中despair.绝望。I say to you today, my friends, so even though we face the difficulties of today and tomorr我的朋友们，今天我告诉你们，即使我们面对今天的困难，也要面对你们ow, I still have a dream. It is a dream deeply rooted in the American dream.我还有一个梦想。这是一个深深植根于美国梦的梦想。I have a dream that one day this nation will rise up, live up to the true meaning of its cr我梦想有一天这个国家会起来，不辜负它的真正含义eed: “We hold these truths to be self-evident; that all men are created equal.”eed：“我们认为这些真理是不言而喻的;所有人都是平等的。“I have a dream that one day on the red hills of Georgia the sons of former slaves and t我梦想有一天，在佐治亚州的红色山丘上，昔日的奴隶和儿子的儿子们he sons of former slave-owners will be able to sit down together at the table of brotherho他的前奴隶主的儿子将能够在兄弟的餐桌上坐下来od.从。I have a dream that one day even the state of Mississippi, a state sweltering with the h我梦想有一天甚至是密西西比州，一个充满了h的状态eat of injustice, sweltering with the heat of oppression, will be transformed into an oasis o吃不公正，用压迫的热量闷热，将变成绿洲of freedom and justice.f自由和正义。I have a dream that my four children will one day live in a nation where they will not be我梦想有一天，我的四个孩子将生活在一个他们不会成为的国家judged by the color if their skin but by the content of their character.如果他们的皮肤，但由他们的性格的内容判断颜色。I have a dream today.我今天有一个梦想。I have a dream that one day down in Alabama with its governor having his lips dripping我有一个梦想，有一天在阿拉巴马州，州长嘴唇滴水with the words of interposition and nullification, one day right down in Alabama little black用插入和无效的话说，有一天在阿拉巴马州的小黑下boys and black girls will be able to join hands with little white boys and white girls as sist男孩和黑人女孩将能够与小白人男孩和白人女孩一起作为圣徒ers and brothers.兄弟们。I have a dream today.我今天有一个梦想。I have a dream that one day every valley shall be exalted, every hill and mountain shall我梦想有一天，每个山谷都要高高在上，每座山丘都要高高在上be made low, the rough places will be made plain, and the crooked places will be made做得很低，粗糙的地方会变得平坦，弯曲的地方也会被制造出来straight, and the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together.直的，耶和华的荣耀必显现，凡有血气的都要见。This is our hope. This is the faith that I go back to the South with. With this faith we will b这是我们的希望。这是我回到南方的信念。有了这个信念，我们将会be able to hew out of the mountain of despair a stone of hope. W ith this faith we will be abl能够从绝望之山中掏出一块希望之石。有了这个信念，我们将成为able to transform the jangling discords of our nation into a beautiful symphony of brotherhooe将我们国家的刺耳的不和谐变成一部美妙的兄弟情谊交响曲d. W ith this faith we will be able to work together, to pray together, to struggle together, tod。有了这个信念，我们就能够一起工作，一起祈祷，一起奋斗，共同努力go to jail together, to stand up for freedom together, knowing that we will be free one day.一起去监狱，一起维护自由，知道有一天我们会自由。This will be the day when all of God’s children will be able to sing with new meaning.这将是所有上帝的孩子能够以新的意义歌唱的日子。My country, ’ tis of thee,我的国家，是你的，Sweet land of liberty,甜蜜的自由之地，Of thee I sing:你唱的我：Land where my fathers died,我父亲去世的地方，Land of the pilgrims’ pride,朝圣者的骄傲之地，From every mountainside从每个山腰Let freedom ring.让自由之声响彻。And if America is to be a great nation this must become true. So let freedom ring from the如果美国要成为一个伟大的国家，这必须成为现实。所以让自由之声响彻prodigious hilltops of New Hampshire.新罕布什尔州的巨大山顶。Let freedom ring from the mighty mountains of New York!让自由之声响彻纽约强大的山脉！Let freedom ring from the heightening Alleghenies of Pennsylvania!让自由之声响彻宾夕法尼亚州的阿勒格尼山脉！Let freedom ring from the snowcapped Rockies of Colorado!让自由之声响彻科罗拉多州白雪皑皑的落基山脉！Let freedom ring from the curvaceous slops of California!让自由之声响彻加利福尼亚的曲线美！But not only that; let freedom ring from Stone Mountain of Georgia!但不仅如此;让自由之声响彻佐治亚州的石山！Let freedom ring from Lookout Mountain of Tennessee!让自由之声响彻田纳西州的了望山！Let freedom ring from every hill and molehill of Mississippi!让自由之声响彻密西西比州的每一座山丘和丘陵！From every mountainside, let freedom ring!从每个山腰，让自由振铃！When we let freedom ring, when we let it ring from every village and every hamlet, from e当我们让自由响起的时候，当我们让它从每个村庄和每个村庄响起时，从every state and every city, we will be able to speed up that day when all of God’s children,非常国家和每个城市，我们将能够加快那天所有上帝的孩子，black men and white men, Jews and Gentiles, Protestants and Catholics, will be able to j黑人和白人，犹太人和外邦人，新教徒和天主教徒，将能够join hands and sing in the words of the old Negro spiritual, “Free at last! free at last! thank用老黑人精神的话来说话，唱歌，“终于自由了！终于自由了！谢谢God almighty, we are free at last!”万能的上帝，我们终于自由了！“