Five score years ago, a great American, in whose symbolic shadow we stand today, signed the Emancipation Proclamation. This momentous decree came as a great beacon light of hope to millions of Negro slaves who had been seared in the flames of withering injustice. It came as a joyous daybreak to end the long night of bad captivity.
五年前，一位伟大的美国人在今天的象征性影子中签署了解放宣言。这项重大法令是对数百万黑人奴隶的希望的一个巨大的指示灯，这些奴隶在不公正的火焰中被烧毁。这是一个欢乐的黎明，结束漫长的囚禁之夜。
    But one hundred years later, the Negro still is not free. One hundred years later, the life of the Negro is still sadly crippled by the manacles of segregation and the chains of discrimination. One hundred years later, the Negro lives on a lonely island of poverty in the midst of a vast ocean of material prosperity. One hundred years later, the Negro is still languished in the corners of American society and finds himself an exile in his own land. So we’ve come here today to dramatize a shameful condition.
但一百年后，黑人仍然不是免费的。一百年后，黑人的生活仍然受到种族歧视和歧视束缚的伤害。一百年后，黑人生活在一个物质繁荣浩瀚的海洋中的孤独的贫穷岛上。一百年后，黑人仍然在美国社会的角落里徘徊，并发现自己在自己的土地上流亡。所以我们今天来到这里来戏剧化一个可耻的条件。






    I am not unmindful that some of you have come here out of great trials and tribulations. Some of you have come fresh from narrow jail cells. Some of you have come from areas where your quest for freedom left you battered by the storms of persecution and staggered by the winds of police brutality. You have been the veterans of creative suffering. Continue to work with the faith that unearned suffering is redemptive.
我不是没有注意到你们中的一些人因为极大的考验和磨难而来到这里。你们中的一些人从狭窄的监狱牢房里新鲜出来。你们中的一些人来自你寻求自由的领域，使你们遭受迫害风暴的袭击，并受到警察暴行风浪的影响。你一直是创造性痛苦的退伍军人。继续努力，相信不必要的苦难是救赎的。
Go back to Mississippi, go back to Alabama, go back to South Carolina, go back to Georgia, go back to Louisiana, go back to the slums and ghettos of our northern cities, knowing that somehow this situation can and will be changed. Let us not wallow in the valley of despair.
回到密西西比，回到阿拉巴马州，回到南卡罗来纳州，回到格鲁吉亚，回到路易斯安那州，回到我们北方城市的贫民窟和贫民窟，知道这种情况会不会改变。让我们不要陷入绝望之谷。






I say to you today, my friends, so even though we face the difficulties of today and tomorrow, I still have a dream. It is a dream deeply rooted in the American dream.
我今天对你们说，我的朋友们，即使面对今天和明天的困难，我仍然有一个梦想。这是一个深深植根于美国梦的梦想。
    I have a dream that one day this nation will rise up, live up to the true meaning of its creed: “We hold these truths to be self-evident; that all men are created equal.”
我有一个梦想，就是有一天这个国家会起来，恪守它的信条的真谛：“我们认为这些真理是不言而喻的，所有人都是平等的。“
    I have a dream that one day on the red hills of Georgia the sons of former slaves and the sons of former slave-owners will be able to sit down together at the table of brotherhood.
我有一个梦想，就是有一天在格鲁吉亚的红山上，前奴隶的儿子和前奴隶主的儿子们将能够一起坐在兄弟会的桌前。
    I have a dream that one day even the state of Mississippi, a state sweltering with the heat of injustice, sweltering with the heat of oppression, will be transformed into an oasis of freedom and justice.
我梦想有一天，即使是密西西比州，一个充斥着不公正的热浪和压迫的酷热的国家，也会变成一个自由和正义的绿洲。
    I have a dream that my four children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color if their skin but by the content of their character.
我有一个梦想，我的四个孩子有一天会生活在一个国家里，如果他们的皮肤，而不是他们的性格的内容，他们不会被评为颜色。
    I have a dream today.
我今天有一个梦想。






    I have a dream that one day down in Alabama with its governor having his lips dripping with the words of interposition and nullification, one day right down in Alabama little black boys and black girls will be able to join hands with little white boys and white girls as sisters and brothers.
我有一个梦想，有一天，阿拉巴马州长与他的嘴唇滴滴答答的干扰词，阿拉巴马州的一天，小黑人男孩和黑人女孩将能够与小白人男孩和白人女孩作为姐妹和兄弟。
    I have a dream today.
我今天有一个梦想。
    I have a dream that one day every valley shall be exalted, every hill and mountain shall be made low, the rough places will be made plain, and the crooked places will be made straight, and the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together.
我梦想有一天，每一个山谷都将被提升，每个山丘和山都会变得低沉，粗糙的地方会变得平坦，弯曲的地方也会变得平直，并且主的荣耀将会显露出来，而且所有的肉都应该一起看。
This is our hope. This is the faith that I go back to the South with. With this faith we will be able to hew out of the mountain of despair a stone of hope. With this faith we will be able to transform the jangling discords of our nation into a beautiful symphony of brotherhood. With this faith we will be able to work together, to pray together, to struggle together, to go to jail together, to stand up for freedom together, knowing that we will be free one day.
这是我们的希望。这是我回到南方的信念。凭借这种信念，我们将能够从绝望之山开辟出希望之石。凭借这一信念，我们将能够将我们国家的狂欢不安分子变成美丽的兄弟情谊交响乐。有了这个信念，我们就能够一起工作，一起祷告，一起奋斗，一起入狱，一起站起来争取自由，知道我们有一天会自由。
    This will be the day when all of God’s children will be able to sing with new meaning. 
这将是所有上帝的孩子能够以新的含义唱歌的日子。
My country, ’ tis of thee,
我的国家，“你是你的，
Sweet land of liberty,
甜蜜的自由之地，
Of thee I sing:
我唱歌的时候：
Land where my fathers died,
我父亲去世的地方，
Land of the pilgrims’ pride,
朝圣者的骄傲之地，
From every mountainside
从每个山腰
Let freedom ring.
让自由之声响彻。
And if America is to be a great nation this must become true. So let freedom ring from the prodigious hilltops of New Hampshire.
而如果美国要成为一个伟大的国家，这必须成为现实。让自由之声响彻新罕布什尔州的巨大山顶。
Let freedom ring from the mighty mountains of New York!
让自由之声响彻纽约大山！
Let freedom ring from the heightening Alleghenies of Pennsylvania!
让自由之声响彻宾夕法尼亚州阿勒格尼高地！
Let freedom ring from the snowcapped Rockies of Colorado!
让自由之声从科罗拉多州的白雪皑皑的落基山脉响起！
Let freedom ring from the curvaceous slops of California!
让自由之声响彻加利福尼亚的cur sl之流！
But not only that; let freedom ring from Stone Mountain of Georgia!
但不仅如此;让自由之声从佐治亚州的石山响起！
Let freedom ring from Lookout Mountain of Tennessee!
让自由之声从田纳西州的Lookout山响起！
Let freedom ring from every hill and molehill of Mississippi!
让自由之声响彻密西西比州的每一座山丘！
From every mountainside, let freedom ring!
从每个山腰，让自由振铃！
When we let freedom ring, when we let it ring from every village and every hamlet, from every state and every city, we will be able to speed up that day when all of God’s children, black men and white men, Jews and Gentiles, Protestants and Catholics, will be able to join hands and sing in the words of the old Negro spiritual, “Free at last! free at last! thank God almighty, we are free at last!”
当我们让自由之声响起，当我们让它从每个村庄，每个村庄，每个州和每个城市响起时，当上帝的所有孩子，黑人和白人，犹太人和外邦人，都能够加速这一天，新教徒和天主教徒将能够携手并用旧黑人精神的歌词唱歌，“终于自由了！终于自由了！感谢全能的上帝，我们终于自由了！“






