Five score years ago, a great American, in whose symbolic shadow we stand today, signed the Emancipation Proclamation. This momentous decree came as a great beacon light of hope to millions of Negro slaves who had been seared in the flames of withering injustice. It came as a joyous daybreak to end the long night of bad captivity.五年前，一位伟大的美国人，在我们今天的象征性影子中签署了解放宣言。这项重大法令成为数百名黑人奴隶的希望之光，这些奴隶曾在惨烈的不公正的火焰中灼烧。这是一个欢乐的黎明，结束了被囚禁的漫漫长夜。
But one hundred years later, the Negro still is not free. One hundred years later, the life of the Negro is still sadly crippled by the manacles of segregation and the chains of discrimination. One hundred years later, the Negro lives on a lonely island of poverty in the midst of a vast ocean of material prosperity. One hundred years later, the Negro is still languished in the corners of American society and finds himself an exile in his own land. So we’ve come here today to dramatize a shameful condition.但一百年后，黑人仍然没有自由。一百年后，黑人的生活仍然因种族隔离和歧视的束缚而黯然失色。一百年后，黑人在物质繁荣的广阔海洋中生活在一个孤独的贫困岛屿上。一百年后，黑人仍然在美国社会的角落里挣扎，发现自己在自己的土地上流亡。所以我们今天来到这里戏剧化一个可耻的状况。
I am not unmindful that some of you have come here out of great trials and tribulations. Some of you have come fresh from narrow jail cells. Some of you have come from areas where your quest for freedom left you battered by the storms of persecution and staggered by the winds of police brutality. You have been the veterans of creative suffering. Continue to work with the faith that unearned suffering is redemptive.我有些人是出于极大的考验和磨难而来到这里的，我并不是没有意识。你们中的一些人来自狭窄的牢房。你们当中有些人来自你们追求自由的地方，你们遭受迫害的风暴，并被警察的野蛮风吹倒。你一直是创造性痛苦的老手。继续以不劳而获的痛苦是救赎的信念开展工作。
Go back to Mississippi, go back to Alabama, go back to South Carolina, go back to Georgia, go back to Louisiana, go back to the slums and ghettos of our northern cities, knowing that somehow this situation can and will be changed. Let us not wallow in the valley of despair.回到密西西比州，回到阿拉巴马州，回到南卡罗来纳州，回到格鲁吉亚，回到路易斯安那州，回到我们北方城市的贫民窟和贫民窟，知道这种情况可以并且将会改变。让我们不要陷入绝望的山谷。
I say to you today, my friends, so even though we face the difficulties of today and tomorrow, I still have a dream. It is a dream deeply rooted in the American dream.我的朋友，今天我告诉你，所以即使我们面对今天和明天的困难，我仍然有一个梦想。这是一个深深植根于美国梦的梦想。
I have a dream that one day this nation will rise up, live up to the true meaning of its creed: “We hold these truths to be self-evident; that all men are created equal.”我梦想有一天，这个国家将会起来，实现其信条的真正含义：“我们认为这些真理是不言而喻的;所有人都是平等的。“
I have a dream that one day on the red hills of Georgia the sons of former slaves and the sons of former slave-owners will be able to sit down together at the table of brotherhood.我梦想有一天，在佐治亚州的红色山丘上，昔日奴隶的儿子们和前奴隶主的儿子们将能够在兄弟情谊的桌子上坐下来。
I have a dream that one day even the state of Mississippi, a state sweltering with the heat of injustice, sweltering with the heat of oppression, will be transformed into an oasis of freedom and justice.我梦想有一天，即使是密西西比州，一个充满不公正热潮的国家，在压迫的热浪中闷热，也将变成一片自由和正义的绿洲。
I have a dream that my four children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color if their skin but by the content of their character.我梦想有一天，我的四个孩子将生活在这样一个国家，在这个国家，如果他们的皮肤，他们不会被他们的性格内容所判断。
I have a dream today.我今天有一个梦想。
I have a dream that one day down in Alabama with its governor having his lips dripping with the words of interposition and nullification, one day right down in Alabama little black boys and black girls will be able to join hands with little white boys and white girls as sisters and brothers.我有一个梦想，有一天在阿拉巴马州，州长嘴唇上插着插入和无效的话语，有一天在阿拉巴马州的小黑人男孩和黑人女孩将能够与小白人男孩和白人女孩携手共进作为姐妹和兄弟。
I have a dream today.我今天有一个梦想。
I have a dream that one day every valley shall be exalted, every hill and mountain shall be made low, the rough places will be made plain, and the crooked places will be made straight, and the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together.我梦想有一天，每个山谷都要高高在上，每一座山峰都要降低，粗糙的地方要平坦，弯曲的地方要平直，耶和华的荣耀必显现，所有的肉都要一起看。
This is our hope. This is the faith that I go back to the South with. With this faith we will be able to hew out of the mountain of despair a stone of hope. With this faith we will be able to transform the jangling discords of our nation into a beautiful symphony of brotherhood. With this faith we will be able to work together, to pray together, to struggle together, to go to jail together, to stand up for freedom together, knowing that we will be free one day.这是我们的希望。这是我回到南方的信念。凭借这种信念，我们将能够从绝望之山中汲取希望之石。凭借这种信念，我们将能够将我们国家的刺耳的不和谐变成一个美丽的兄弟情谊交响曲。有了这个信念，我们将能够一起工作，一起祈祷，共同奋斗，一起坐牢，一起维护自由，知道我们有一天会自由。
This will be the day when all of God’s children will be able to sing with new meaning.这将是所有上帝的孩子能够以新的意义歌唱的日子。
My country, ’ tis of thee,我的国家，是你的，
Sweet land of liberty,甜蜜的自由之地，
Of thee I sing:你唱的我：
Land where my fathers died,我父亲去世的地方，
Land of the pilgrims’ pride,朝圣者的骄傲之地，
From every mountainside从每个山腰
Let freedom ring.让自由之声响彻。
And if America is to be a great nation this must become true. So let freedom ring from the prodigious hilltops of New Hampshire.如果美国要成为一个伟大的国家，这必须成为现实。因此，让自由之声响彻新罕布什尔州的巨大山顶。
Let freedom ring from the mighty mountains of New York!让自由之声响彻纽约强大的山脉！
Let freedom ring from the heightening Alleghenies of Pennsylvania!让自由之声响彻宾夕法尼亚州的阿勒格尼山脉！
Let freedom ring from the snowcapped Rockies of Colorado!让自由之声响彻科罗拉多州白雪皑皑的落基山脉！
Let freedom ring from the curvaceous slops of California!让自由之声响彻加利福尼亚的曲线美！
But not only that; let freedom ring from Stone Mountain of Georgia!但不仅如此;让自由之声响彻佐治亚州的石山！
Let freedom ring from Lookout Mountain of Tennessee!让自由之声响彻田纳西州的了望山！
Let freedom ring from every hill and molehill of Mississippi!让自由之声响彻密西西比州的每一座山丘和丘陵！
From every mountainside, let freedom ring!从每个山腰，让自由振铃！
When we let freedom ring, when we let it ring from every village and every hamlet, from every state and every city, we will be able to speed up that day when all of God’s children, black men and white men, Jews and Gentiles, Protestants and Catholics, will be able to join hands and sing in the words of the old Negro spiritual, “Free at last! free at last! thank God almighty, we are free at last!”当我们让自由响起，当我们从每个村庄和每个村庄，每个州和每个城市响起时，我们将能够加快那天所有上帝的孩子，黑人和白人，犹太人和外邦人，新教徒和天主教徒将能够携手并用老黑人精神的话语唱歌，“终于自由了！终于自由了！感谢全能的上帝，我们终于自由了！“
