Five score years ago, a great American, in whose symbolic shadow we stand today, signed the Emancipation Proclamation. This momentous decree came as a great beacon light of hope to millions of Negro slaves who had been seared in the flames of withering injustice. It came as a joyous daybreak to end the long night of bad captivity.
五年前，一位伟大的美国人签署了解放宣言，我们今天站在他象征性的阴影下。这一重大法令的颁布，对无数被奴颜婢膝的黑人奴隶带来了希望的灯塔。它的到来犹如欢乐的黎明，结束了囚禁的漫漫长夜。
    But one hundred years later, the Negro still is not free. One hundred years later, the life of the Negro is still sadly crippled by the manacles of segregation and the chains of discrimination. One hundred years later, the Negro lives on a lonely island of poverty in the midst of a vast ocean of material prosperity. One hundred years later, the Negro is still languished in the corners of American society and finds himself an exile in his own land. So we’ve come here today to dramatize a shameful condition.
但是一百年后，黑人仍然不是自由的。一百年后，黑人的生活仍然被种族隔离的镣铐和歧视的链条所折磨。一百年后，黑人生活在一个贫穷的孤岛上，在物质繁荣的汪洋大海中。一百年后，黑人仍然在美国社会的角落里憔悴，并发现自己在自己的土地上流放。今天我们来到这里是为了戏剧性地描述一个可耻的情况。



    I am not unmindful that some of you have come here out of great trials and tribulations. Some of you have come fresh from narrow jail cells. Some of you have come from areas where your quest for freedom left you battered by the storms of persecution and staggered by the winds of police brutality. You have been the veterans of creative suffering. Continue to work with the faith that unearned suffering is redemptive.
我并不是没有意识到你们中的一些人是从巨大的考验和磨难中来到这里的。你们中的一些人刚从狭小的牢房里出来。你们中的一些人来自于你们追求自由的领域，你们被迫害的风暴击溃，并被警察暴行的狂风所震撼。你一直是创造苦难的退伍军人。继续工作，相信不劳而获的痛苦是救赎的。
Go back to Mississippi, go back to Alabama, go back to South Carolina, go back to Georgia, go back to Louisiana, go back to the slums and ghettos of our northern cities, knowing that somehow this situation can and will be changed. Let us not wallow in the valley of despair.
回到密西西比州，回到亚拉巴马州，回到南卡罗来纳州，回到格鲁吉亚，回到路易斯安那，回到我们北方城市的贫民窟和贫民窟，知道这种情况能够而且将会改变。让我们不要陷入绝望的深渊。



I say to you today, my friends, so even though we face the difficulties of today and tomorrow, I still have a dream. It is a dream deeply rooted in the American dream.
朋友们，今天我对你们说，即使我们面对今天和明天的困难，我仍然有一个梦想。这是一个深深扎根于美国梦中的梦。
    I have a dream that one day this nation will rise up, live up to the true meaning of its creed: “We hold these truths to be self-evident; that all men are created equal.”
我梦想有一天，这个国家将奋起，实现其信条的真谛：“我们认为这些真理是不言而喻的，人人生而平等。”
    I have a dream that one day on the red hills of Georgia the sons of former slaves and the sons of former slave-owners will be able to sit down together at the table of brotherhood.
我梦想有一天，在格鲁吉亚的红色山丘上，昔日奴隶的儿子和昔日奴隶主的儿子能够一起坐在兄弟会的桌旁。
    I have a dream that one day even the state of Mississippi, a state sweltering with the heat of injustice, sweltering with the heat of oppression, will be transformed into an oasis of freedom and justice.
我梦想有一天，即使是密西西比州，一个热情洋溢的不公正的国家，被压迫的酷热所折磨，也会变成一个自由和正义的绿洲。
    I have a dream that my four children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color if their skin but by the content of their character.
我梦想有一天，我的四个孩子将生活在一个不以肤色为评判标准，而是以品格的优劣为评判标准的国家。
    I have a dream today.
我今天有一个梦想。



    I have a dream that one day down in Alabama with its governor having his lips dripping with the words of interposition and nullification, one day right down in Alabama little black boys and black girls will be able to join hands with little white boys and white girls as sisters and brothers.
我有一个梦想，有一天，在亚拉巴马州，他的州长嘴里淌满了插嘴和废话的话，有一天，在亚拉巴马州，小黑人男孩和黑人女孩将能和白人男孩和白人姐妹们携手共进。
    I have a dream today.
我今天有一个梦想。
    I have a dream that one day every valley shall be exalted, every hill and mountain shall be made low, the rough places will be made plain, and the crooked places will be made straight, and the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together.
我梦想有一天，每一个山谷都将被高举，每一座山丘和山峰都将被夷为平地，崎岖不平的地方将变得平坦，弯曲的地方将变得笔直，上帝的荣耀将显露出来，所有的肉身都将一起看到它。
This is our hope. This is the faith that I go back to the South with. With this faith we will be able to hew out of the mountain of despair a stone of hope. With this faith we will be able to transform the jangling discords of our nation into a beautiful symphony of brotherhood. With this faith we will be able to work together, to pray together, to struggle together, to go to jail together, to stand up for freedom together, knowing that we will be free one day.
这是我们的希望。这是我带回South的信念。有了这个信念，我们就能从绝望的山峰中砍出一块希望之石。有了这个信念，我们就能够把我们国家的嘈杂争吵转变成一种美丽的兄弟情谊交响乐。有了这个信念，我们就能一起工作，一起祈祷，一起奋斗，一起坐牢，一起为自由站起来，因为我们知道有一天我们会自由。
    This will be the day when all of God’s children will be able to sing with new meaning. 
这将是上帝的所有孩子都能以新的意义歌唱的日子。
My country, ’ tis of thee,
我的国家，因为你，
Sweet land of liberty,
甜蜜的自由之地，
Of thee I sing:
我唱你的歌：
Land where my fathers died,
我父亲死后的土地
Land of the pilgrims’ pride,
清教徒的骄傲之地，
From every mountainside
从每一个山坡
Let freedom ring.
让自由之声响起。
And if America is to be a great nation this must become true. So let freedom ring from the prodigious hilltops of New Hampshire.
如果美国要成为一个伟大的国家，这就必须实现。因此，让自由之声响彻新罕布什尔州的巍峨山峰。
Let freedom ring from the mighty mountains of New York!
让自由之声响彻纽约的巍巍群山！
Let freedom ring from the heightening Alleghenies of Pennsylvania!
让自由之声响彻宾夕法尼亚的阿勒格尼！
Let freedom ring from the snowcapped Rockies of Colorado!
让自由之声响彻科罗拉多冰雪覆盖的落基山脉！
Let freedom ring from the curvaceous slops of California!
让自由从加利福尼亚婀娜多姿的山坡上响起吧！
But not only that; let freedom ring from Stone Mountain of Georgia!
但不仅如此，让自由之声响彻佐治亚州的石山！
Let freedom ring from Lookout Mountain of Tennessee!
让自由之声响彻田纳西的了望山！
Let freedom ring from every hill and molehill of Mississippi!
让自由之声响彻密西西比州的每一座山和每一座小山！
From every mountainside, let freedom ring!
让自由之声响彻每一个山坡！
When we let freedom ring, when we let it ring from every village and every hamlet, from every state and every city, we will be able to speed up that day when all of God’s children, black men and white men, Jews and Gentiles, Protestants and Catholics, will be able to join hands and sing in the words of the old Negro spiritual, “Free at last! free at last! thank God almighty, we are free at last!”
当我们让自由之声响起时，当我们让它响彻每一个村庄和每一个村庄，从每一个州和每一个城市响起，我们都将能够加速那一天，那时所有的上帝的孩子，黑人和白人，犹太人和外邦人，新教徒和天主教徒，都将能够携手共进。老黑人精神的RDS，“终于自由了！终于自由了！感谢全能的上帝，我们终于自由了！“



