Five score years ago, a great American, in whose symbolic shadow we stand today, signed the Emancipation Proclamation. This momentous decree came as a great beacon light of hope to millions of Negro slaves who had been seared in the flames of withering injustice. It came as a joyous daybreak to end the long night of bad captivity.﻿5年前,一位伟大的美国人,今天我们站在他象征性的庇荫,签署了解放宣言。
But one hundred years later, the Negro still is not free. One hundred years later, the life of the Negro is still sadly crippled by the manacles of segregation and the chains of discrimination. One hundred years later, the Negro lives on a lonely island of poverty in the midst of a vast ocean of material prosperity. One hundred years later, the Negro is still languished in the corners of American society and finds himself an exile in his own land. So we’ve come here today to dramatize a shameful condition.然而,一百年后,黑人依然没有获得自由。
I am not unmindful that some of you have come here out of great trials and tribulations. Some of you have come fresh from narrow jail cells. Some of you have come from areas where your quest for freedom left you battered by the storms of persecution and staggered by the winds of police brutality. You have been the veterans of creative suffering. Continue to work with the faith that unearned suffering is redemptive.我并非没有注意到你们有些人历尽来到这里考验和磨难。
Go back to Mississippi, go back to Alabama, go back to South Carolina, go back to Georgia, go back to Louisiana, go back to the slums and ghettos of our northern cities, knowing that somehow this situation can and will be changed. Let us not wallow in the valley of despair.回到密西西比州,回到阿拉巴马州,回到南卡罗来纳,回到格鲁吉亚,回到路易斯安那州,回到北方城市的贫民窟和贫民区,要心中有数,这种状况会被改变。
I say to you today, my friends, so even though we face the difficulties of today and tomorrow, I still have a dream. It is a dream deeply rooted in the American dream.我今天对你说,我的朋友,所以即使我们面临困难的今天和明天,我仍然有一个梦想。
I have a dream that one day this nation will rise up, live up to the true meaning of its creed: “We hold these truths to be self-evident; that all men are created equal.”我有一个梦想,有一天,这个国家将会站起来,实现其立国信条的真谛:“我们认为这些真理是不言而喻的;
I have a dream that one day on the red hills of Georgia the sons of former slaves and the sons of former slave-owners will be able to sit down together at the table of brotherhood.我有一个梦想,有一天,在佐治亚州的红色山岗上,昔日奴隶的儿子和昔日奴隶主的儿子将能够坐在一起在餐桌上。
I have a dream that one day even the state of Mississippi, a state sweltering with the heat of injustice, sweltering with the heat of oppression, will be transformed into an oasis of freedom and justice.我有一个梦想,有一天,甚至连密西西比州,一个国家闷热的不公热,闷热的压迫,也将变成自由和正义的绿洲。
I have a dream that my four children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color if their skin but by the content of their character.我有一个梦想,有一天我的四个孩子将生活在一个国家,他们不会从如果他们的肤色,而是他们的品格。
I have a dream today.今天我有一个梦想。
I have a dream that one day down in Alabama with its governor having his lips dripping with the words of interposition and nullification, one day right down in Alabama little black boys and black girls will be able to join hands with little white boys and white girls as sisters and brothers.我有一个梦想,有一天,在阿拉巴马州在其州长的嘴唇滴着干涉和无效的话说,有一天在阿拉巴马州的黑人男孩和女孩将能够与白人小男孩一道和白人女孩的兄弟姐妹们。
I have a dream today.今天我有一个梦想。
I have a dream that one day every valley shall be exalted, every hill and mountain shall be made low, the rough places will be made plain, and the crooked places will be made straight, and the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together.我有一个梦想,有一天每个山谷必升为高,每一座丘陵和山地应当低,崎岖的地方将平原,和弯曲的地方将直,和耶和华的荣耀必然显现,凡有血气的必看。
This is our hope. This is the faith that I go back to the South with. With this faith we will be able to hew out of the mountain of despair a stone of hope. With this faith we will be able to transform the jangling discords of our nation into a beautiful symphony of brotherhood. With this faith we will be able to work together, to pray together, to struggle together, to go to jail together, to stand up for freedom together, knowing that we will be free one day.这是我们的希望。
This will be the day when all of God’s children will be able to sing with new meaning.这将是那一天所有上帝的孩子们将能唱歌和新的意义。
My country, ’ tis of thee,我的国家,你的,
Sweet land of liberty,自由的乐土上,
Of thee I sing:我唱的你:
Land where my fathers died,土地上,我的父亲去世了,
Land of the pilgrims’ pride,土地朝圣者的骄傲,
From every mountainside从每一片山坡响起
Let freedom ring.让自由之声。
And if America is to be a great nation this must become true. So let freedom ring from the prodigious hilltops of New Hampshire.如果美国要成为伟大的国家必须成为这样。
Let freedom ring from the mighty mountains of New York!让自由之声响彻纽约州的崇山峻岭!
Let freedom ring from the heightening Alleghenies of Pennsylvania!让自由之声响彻宾夕法尼亚州的阿勒格尼山脉!
Let freedom ring from the snowcapped Rockies of Colorado!让自由之声响彻科罗拉多州冰雪皑皑的洛基山!
Let freedom ring from the curvaceous slops of California!让自由之声响彻加利福尼亚州的婀娜的污水!
But not only that; let freedom ring from Stone Mountain of Georgia!不,不仅如此;
Let freedom ring from Lookout Mountain of Tennessee!让自由之声响彻田纳西州的望山!
Let freedom ring from every hill and molehill of Mississippi!让自由之声响彻密西西比州的一座座山峰,一个个土丘! !
From every mountainside, let freedom ring!让自由之声从每一片山坡响起来!
When we let freedom ring, when we let it ring from every village and every hamlet, from every state and every city, we will be able to speed up that day when all of God’s children, black men and white men, Jews and Gentiles, Protestants and Catholics, will be able to join hands and sing in the words of the old Negro spiritual, “Free at last! free at last! thank God almighty, we are free at last!”当我们让自由响,当我们让它响从每一个大小村庄,从每一个州和每一个城市,我们将能够加速这一天当,上帝的所有儿女,黑人和白人,犹太人和外邦人,新教徒和天主教徒,将能携手,合唱一首古老的黑人灵歌,“终于自由了!
